A general definition of embedded systems is: embedded systems are computing systems with tightly coupled
hardware and software integration, that are designed to perform a dedicated function.The word embedded reflects
the fact that these systems are usually an integral part of a larger system, known as the embedding system. Multiple
embedded systems can coexist in an embedding system.they are systems within systems.They either cannot or do not function on their own.

In some cases, embedded systems can function as standalone systems. The network router.

The processors found in common personal computers (PC) are general-purpose or universal processors.
They are designed to be suitable for a variety of applications.But
embedded processors are special-purpose processors designed for a specific class of applications.

The key is
application awareness, i.e., knowing the nature of the applications and meeting the requirement for those applications
that it is designed to run.

some embedded
processors are limited in functionality, i.e., a processor is good enough for the class of applications for which it was
designed but is likely inadequate for other classes of applications. This is one reason why many embedded
processors do not have fast CPU speeds. For example, the processor chosen for a personal digital assistant (PDA)
device does not have a floating-point co-processor because floating-point operations are either not needed or
software emulation is sufficient.

Commonly both the hardware and the software for an embedded system are developed in parallel. Constant design
feedback between the two design teams should occur in this development model.



Random Access Memory (RAM)
Also called Read/Write Memory, requires external power to maintain memory content. The term random access
refers to the ability to access any memory cell directly. RAM is much faster than ROM. Two types of RAM that are
of interest:
•Dynamic RAM (DRAM) DRAM is a RAM device that requires periodic refreshing to retain its content.
•Static RAM (SRAM) SRAM is a RAM device that retains its content as long as power is supplied by an
external power source. SRAM does not require periodic refreshing and it is faster than DRAM.
•Non-Volatile RAM (NVRAM) NVRAM is a special type of SRAM that has backup battery power so it
can retain its content after the main system power is shut off. Another variation of NVARM combines
SRAM and EEPROM so that its content is written into the EEPROM when power is shut off and is read
back from the EEPROM when power is restored.


What is RealTimeEmbedded System?
-->In the simplest form, real-time systems can be defined as those systems that respond to external events in a timely
fashion,The response is guarrated.

External events can have synchronous or asynchronous characteristics. Responding to external events includes
recognizing when an event occurs, performing the required processing as a result of the event, and outputting the
necessary results within a given time constraint. Timing constraints include finish time, or both start time and finish time.

It can be seen that not all embedded systems exhibit real-time behaviors
nor are all real-time systems embedded. However, the two systems are not mutually exclusive, and the area in which
they overlap creates the combination of systems known as real-time embedded systems.

Figure 1.7: Structure of real-time systems.
The structure of a real-time system, as shown in Figure 1.7, is a controlling system and at least one controlled system.
The controlling system interacts with the controlled system in various ways. First, the interaction can be periodic, in
which communication is initiated from the controlling system to the controlled system. In this case, the communication
is predictable and occurs at predefined intervals. Second, the interaction can be aperiodic, in which communication
is initiated from the controlled system to the controlling system. In this case, the communication is unpredictable and is
determined by the random occurrences of external events in the environment of the controlled system. Finally, the
communication can be a combination of both types. The controlling system must process and respond to the events
and information generated by the controlled system in a guaranteed time frame.

Example 1:
Imagine a real-time weapons defense system whose role is to protect a naval destroyer by shooting down incoming
missiles. The idea is to shred an incoming missile into pieces with bullets before it reaches the ship. The weapons
system is comprised of a radar system, a command-and-decision (C&D) system, and weapons firing control system.
The controlling system is the C&D system, whereas the controlled systems are the radar system and the weapons
firing control system.
•
•
•
The radar system scans and searches for potential targets. Coordinates of a potential target are sent to the
C&D system periodically with high frequency after the target is acquired.
The C&D system must first determine the threat level by threat classification and evaluation, based on the
target information provided by the radar system. If a threat is imminent, the C&D system must, at a minimum,
calculate the speed and flight path or trajectory, as well as estimate the impact location. Because a missile
tends to drift off its flight path with the degree of drift dependent on the precision of its guidance system, the
C&D system calculates an area (a box) around the flight path.
The C&D system then activates the weapons firing control system closest to the anticipated impact location
and guides the weapons system to fire continuously within the moving area or box until the target is
destroyed. The weapons firing control system is comprised of large-caliber, multi-barrel, high-muzzle
velocity, high-power machine guns.


In this weapons defense system example, the communication between the radar system and the C&D system is
aperiodic, because the occurrence of a potential target is unpredictable and the potential target can appear at any
time. The communication between the C&D system and the weapons firing control system is, however, periodic
because the C&D system feeds the firing coordinates into the weapons control system periodically (with an extremely
high frequency). Initial firing coordinates are based on a pre-computed flight path but are updated in real-time
according to the actual location of the incoming missile.


Most RTOS kernels contain the following components:
Scheduler-is contained within each kernel and follows a set of algorithms that determines which task
executes when. Some common examples of scheduling algorithms include round-robin and preemptive
scheduling.

Objects-are special kernel constructs that help developers create applications for real-time embedded
systems. Common kernel objects include tasks, semaphores, and message queues.


Services-are operations that the kernel performs on an object or, generally operations such as timing,
interrupt handling, and resource management.


1)Scheduler
-->The scheduler is at the heart of every kernel. A scheduler provides the algorithms needed to determine which task
executes when. To understand how scheduling works, this section describes the following topics:
--Schedulable entities 
--multitasking
--context switching
--dispacther
--scheduling algorithm

#Schedulable entities:
Tasks and processes are all examples of schedulable entities found in most kernels.

